# Database Tables

## Table Names

Tables should be given a meaningful name that describes the purpose of the table. All table names should be plural and where the table name contains more than one word only the last should be plural. 

Table names should be underscore separated. 

For example:

```
programmes
programme_years
programme_year_modules
```

In a shared database schema ( e.g. BANDEV ) , tables that relate to a specific domain should use a prefix to relate them to one another. This is not required in a schema explicitly created for a specific domain ( e.g. TRAVEL_COVER )

Some example table names in a shared database schema: 

```
timetable_programmes
timetable_programme_years
timetable_programme_year_modules
timetable_export_logs
```

### General Guidance

**Don't prefix table names with programme or project names.** For  example, StARS or New Core. Always name tables according to domain ( in a shared schema ) and purpose. 

**When creating new tables ensure that you get the right balance of brevity and meaningfulness**. Don't create tables with unnecessarily long names or names that are so short that it is difficult to understand their purpose. 


## Constraints / Indexes

Table constraints should be named as followed. Where an index is manually defined it should follow the convention below. 

```
pk_<table>                 -- Primary Key
fk_<table>_<optional_text> -- Foreign Key
idx_<table>_<description>  -- Manually defined index
```

## Table Sequences

From Oracle Database 12c you can optionally use database identity columns to define table sequence columns:

```sql
 CREATE TABLE new_table (
    primary_key_id NUMBER GENERATED BY DEFAULT ON NULL AS IDENTITY,
    ...
);
```

The value in column primary_key_id will be autmoatically generated as an incrementing value. For more information on this visit: [docs.oracle.com](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/other-databases/nosql-database/22.1/sqlreferencefornosql/identity-column.html)


## Table comments

Table and column comments should be included in the creation script for all new tables. 

```sql
COMMENT ON TABLE table IS 'Overall table description';


COMMENT ON COLUMN table.column1 IS 'Column 1 description';
COMMENT ON COLUMN table.column2 IS 'Column 2 description';
```

## Temporary tables

This guidance refers to short lived backup tables created to allow rollback of a set of changes or to capture the state of data at a point of time. It does not refer to oracle global temporary tables. 

The name for temporary tables should always link back to the ServiceNow incident or Jira issue number that they have been created for, for example *srs_001_swradms_table_backup* . 

Note that table names cannot contain hyphen ( - ) characters and these should be replaced with an underscore. 

**From a development process perspective, Jira issues should remain open until all temporary tables have been removed from the production database. If there is a compelling reason for these tables to remain in the database, this must be agreed with the team leader / Integrations & Systems Development manager before the Jira issue can be closed.  

## File Names

Scripts that create or update tables should have filenames in the following format, for example ssdt-001_table.sql

```
ssdt-001_<table_name>.sql        -- Create table script
ssdt-001_alter_<table_name>.sql  -- Alter table script
```
